---
layout: post
title: Appdate
---

Our very own app dev shop [furryfishApps](http://furryfishapps.com) has been busy lately. 
We've been working hard on an App called ["Cologne Train"] (http://itunes.apple.com/app/bahn-koln/id437791701?mt=8 "Köln Bahn"). As the name 
indicates, it makes life easier commuting via local trains here in Cologne.

In this blog post I'll tell you a little bit about the app and highlight a couple of things, which 
I think are quite interesting. It's probably not going to get too technical and more informative.

Cologne Train really servers our own needs. We commute almost daily and always ran into the problem 
of arriving at the train station just to notice that the train is either delayed due to some disruption 
or just left a couple if minutes ago. We wanted to know about disruptions and train departures before 
we leave the house - that's when the Cologne Train App idea was born. It took about 19 days from 
inception to 1.0, although I have only worked on the App a couple of hours everyday. 

For our first feature - informing users about disruptions - we built a custom server backend. It 
takes care of detecting disruptions and sending out Push Notifications. In our App users can 
select which train lines they are interested in and "subscribe" to Push Notifications. It was one 
of our design goals to make our App as non-invasive as possible. If you are only commuting on train 
line 16, for example, you probably don't want to receive Push Notifications for any other lines 
and thanks to our custom server backend, you won't receive any. 

For Push Notifications we use [Urban Airship](http://urbanairship.com "Urban Airship"), which is awesome! 
In case you've never heard of them: Urban Airship provides an infrastructure for Apple Push Notifications 
(APN) as well as In-App Purchases. In plain English: they solve all those nitty-gritty details with Device 
Tokens and APN. They also provide an easy to use [client library](https://github.com/dlinsin/ios-library "My fork"), 
which handles device registration and badge updates with Urban Airship. It also helps to configure 
"quiet times", another feature, which helps our App with non-invasiveness. 

Although it's great to know about train disruptions, something was missing. We also wanted our App to 
know when the next train would leave at our station. However, our App is not meant as a 
timetable App, it's merely meant to save you a couple of minutes, when leaving the house. It'll show 
you an estimate of how many minutes you've got until the train arrives at the station of your choice. 
It updates live, meaning if the train takes longer that estimated, it'll adjust appropriately. 

In order to implement this, we tap into the local train companies website, which fortunately, 
offers a little html snippet, which you can add to your own website. It's easy and fast enough to 
parse on the device and scales nicely up to a couple of dozen stations. 

Due to the fact that Cologne doesn't have too many stations, we decided to offer a preloaded indexed 
list, as opposed to an "only searching" feature. It was a design decision, which we believe, 
makes the App feel rather concise and easy to use. There's still a search bar, however the fact that 
users can instantly scroll through the list, makes the App feel even more nativ. 

Unfortunately, there are situations when our App cannot display any information, e.g. due to a 
downtime of the local train companies systems or a disruption of network service. However, if the 
user just refreshed the content a couple of minutes ago, we think the information displayed is still 
valid. So we decided to not discard the displayed disruptions or train times, but rather add a subtle 
notification to indicate something went wrong. There are a lot of Apps replacing the content with an 
error message, which we believe is simply a bad design decision. 

Although our App looks quite simple, we pondered over little design decisions like the latter a lot! 
We want our App to be as helpful and non-invasiv as possible, mostly because we also use it every day. 

A couple of days ago version 2.1 was approved, which mainly fixes some bugs. However, we have a lot more 
ideas to come, so stay tuned. Oh and [we love feedback](http://twitter.com/furryfishApps)!








