---
layout: post
title: Drive
---


Let me start by stating that this blog post _is not_ about how you can find your __drive__ or 
motivation, but rather what gives me personally the urge and determination to not be satisfied with a 
mediocre result of my professional work. I hope it might be somewhat inspiring.

Let's quickly take a look at a scene from the excellent movie ["Indie Game"](http://indiegamethemovie.com). 
If you haven't seen it, please go to [http://buy.indiegamethemovie.com](http://buy.indiegamethemovie.com) 
and download it now. It's truly amazing and inspiring for everyone working on any kind of 
product. 

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/44190344" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0">        </iframe>




This is not meant to be in any way insulting to the brilliant creator of [FEZ](http://fezgame.com/) Phil Fish. 
As a software developer, you've most likely been in this kind of situations - I know I have been and 
still am  - more than I'd like to be. 

It's part of our daily business to fail and try again. However, for me with each and every single 
line of code I write, I want to create something I can be proud of. Admittedly, it doesn't 
work most of the time. However, when my product fails or my code sucks, it motivates me even more 
to make it better - just like Phil Fish in the clip above. 

Now, not all the projects I've worked on are truly inspiring. It's hardly exciting to work 
on an internally used enterprise software and really easy to lose your motivation on the way. 
However, even working on those projects, I tried to do my best and give those users of the software 
the best experience possible. 

If my software is mediocre or doesn't work as advertised I feel bad - on a personal 
level - no matter if it's internally used enterprise software or my very own App. I put my 
very best effort in it and I failed!

On the web it's easy to bash someone else's software, you don't have to tell the person straight 
into his face. In turn it's easy to discard any kind of criticism. There's nothing like the 
experience of sitting in a room with your team and reviewing the software with your client or user 
in person. If your code sucks or something fails because of mistakes you've made, the whole team looks bad. 
That is one of the biggest motivations to give my very best.

The feeling when someone is using the software I wrote and they are excited or even only 
satisfied with the work I've done is absolutely stunning. For me, that is my ultimate __drive__!